= Contents =
- [[#Permanent static and dynamic flying restrictions|Permanent static and dynamic flying restrictions]]
    - [[#Permanent static and dynamic flying restrictions#Static objects|Static objects]]
        - [[#Permanent static and dynamic flying restrictions#Static objects#Restricted zones|Restricted zones]]
            - [[#Permanent static and dynamic flying restrictions#Static objects#Restricted zones#Airports|Airports]]
            - [[#Permanent static and dynamic flying restrictions#Static objects#Restricted zones#Restricted airspace|Restricted airspace]]
            - [[#Permanent static and dynamic flying restrictions#Static objects#Restricted zones#Other structures|Other structures]]
    - [[#Permanent static and dynamic flying restrictions#Dynamic objects|Dynamic objects]]
    - [[#Permanent static and dynamic flying restrictions#Temporary flying restrictions|Temporary flying restrictions]]
    - [[#Permanent static and dynamic flying restrictions#Local flying restrictions|Local flying restrictions]]
    - [[#Permanent static and dynamic flying restrictions#Exemptions|Exemptions]]
- [[#Flight safety|Flight safety]]
    - [[#Flight safety#Preparation|Preparation]]
    - [[#Flight safety#Weather conditions|Weather conditions]]
    - [[#Flight safety#Health conditions|Health conditions]]
    - [[#Flight safety#During the flight|During the flight]]
    - [[#Flight safety#Incident response|Incident response]]
- [[#Regulations|Regulations]]
    - [[#Regulations#Licences and insurance|Licences and insurance]]
- [[#Privacy|Privacy]]
    - [[#Privacy#Privacy laws|Privacy laws]]
    - [[#Privacy#Preparation|Preparation]]


These rules apply for:
- drones/aircraft models under 20kg
- drones/aircraft models flown outdoors in the UK

== Permanent static and dynamic flying restrictions ==

- Geo-awareness software should not be disabled on drones.

=== Static objects ===

==== Restricted zones ====

===== Airports =====

- The drone should not fly in flight restriction zones (FRZ), unless given
  permission. Consequences include 5 years in prison.
- The FRZs for airports in the UK are here: https://dronesafe.uk/restrictions/

- Each airport has an FRZ, which is:
    * within the 4-4.5km (2-2.5 nautical miles) around the centre of the airport
    * 5km away from each end of any runway, with a width of 1km

===== Restricted airspace =====

- The drone should not fly in zones with restricted airspace. These are around:
    - prisons
    - military bases
    - royal palaces
    - government sites

===== Other structures =====

- The drone should not fly above 120m from the surface (terrain, hills,
  etc.).
- The drone should not be closer than 50m from buildings, structures (statues,
  building cranes, etc.), vehicles, trains, boats, etc., unless given
  permission.
- The drone should not fly closer than 150m from built-up and busy areas (parks,
  beaches, cities, housing estates, etc.), as well as above them.

=== Dynamic objects ===

- The drone should not be closer than 50m when flying or 30m when taking-off or
  landing from people, unless given permission.
- The drone should not fly closer than 150m from crowds of 1000+ people, as well
  as above them.
- The drone should not fly close enough to animals to disturb them.
- There may be aircraft flying below 120m (police/ambulance helicopters,
  military, crop, electricity pylons). The drone should safely land and stop
  flying when these are spotted.

=== Temporary flying restrictions ===

- Some areas can be temporarily put under flying restrictions where the drone
  can't fly. These include:
    - events (airshows, political conferences)
    - emergency incidents (fires, floods, traffic incidents)
- The notices on such restrictions are available at: https://drones.nats.aero/home

=== Local flying restrictions ===

- There may be additional local bye laws for flying restrictions which need be
  followed.
- There may be signs designating a site as a flying restriction area.

=== Exemptions ===

- Permission from the airports or the Civil Aviation Authority is required when:
    - the drone is over 20kg
    - the drone could fly in any restricted zones
    - the drone is flown for commercial purposes
- Some club memberships may allow additional flying permissions.

== Flight safety ==

=== Preparation ===

- Note the following information:
    - how far the drone an fly
    - how long can the drone fly
    - there is a "home" location the drone can return to in case of a problem

- Before flying, make sure to:
    - charge and check the battery/fuel levels in both, the drone and the
      controller
    - update the drone software and FRZs

=== Weather conditions ===

- The drone should be in direct sight at all times, without the need for
  external viewing equipment (binoculars, etc.).
- Fog or sun glares may cause loss of sight of the drone.
- The drone operator should be clearly seen by other people, so that they know
  who's responsible.

- Stop flying when:
    - the winds are too strong for the drone to handle (on the ground and in the
      air)
    - it rains or snows
    - the temperature is too low (batteries will last shorter in cold weather)

- Do not attempt to fly a drone when you:
    - feel cold or the weather is wet (this will affect your ability to control
      he drone).
    - stand in the sun too much (this will affect your ability to concentrate)

=== Health conditions ===

- Do not drink and fly
- Do not fly under the influence of drugs or medicine
- Do not fly when tired or unwell

=== During the flight ===

- Stop flying when:
    - weather conditions change unfavourably
    - it is no longer safe to fly due to emergency responses or change in
      circumstances

=== Incident response ===

- When something goes wrong and something dangerous happens, report it to the
  Civil Aviation Authority at: http://www.aviationreporting.eu/AviationReporting/
- When the drone crashes somewhere where you can't access your drone, tell the
  site owner immediately (especially for sensitive sites).
- Report suspicious and dangerous usages of drones to the police or site
  security.

== Regulations ==

The flying of a drone should be within all existing laws and not just the
aviation laws.

=== Licences and insurance ===

- Drones can be used for recreational purposes only.
- Drones used for commercial purposes (making money) require a commercial
  license.
- Insurance for damages caused by the drone is optional for recreational use,
  and compulsory for any other use.
- The person who flies the drone needs a *flyer ID* (lasts 3 years).
- The person/organisation responsible for the drone needs an *operator ID*
  (lasts 1 year). All drones need be labeled with the operator ID.
- A drone operator should only allow the flying of the drone to those with
  flyer's IDs.

== Privacy ==

These apply to any drone which has *recording* cameras.

=== Privacy laws ===

- *Data Protection laws* apply when pictures are taken of people in locations
  they expect privacy (home, garden, etc.).
- *GDPR laws* apply to all taken pictures as they may include personal
  information (facial recognition, time and location).
- It is illegal to take pictures for criminal purposes.

=== Preparation ===

- To better control the type of pictures taken and avoid breaking laws and
  privacy invasion, check:
    - the recording quality
    - zoom levels
    - recording controls (start/stop)
- Let people know before taking pictures of them.
- Do not share harmful or unfair pictures.
- Store any pictures safely.
